POSITIONING AND BREAKING THE GRIP TO FINISH THE KIMURA. RAFAEL LOVATO.
Alright, so I want to begin our conversation about the Kimura, focusing on looking at the finish, alright? Um, our positioning and how we're going to break the grip of our opponent.
Uh, for sure as we transition from side control into the north-south Kimura, um, they're going to have time and the realization to know that their arm's in danger.
And they're going to want to make some sort of grip to um help them fight it off and save them themselves from being finished.
Alright? Um, and this is the part that I get asked about the most, um, in regards to how to break the grip and actually get the arm behind their back. So, we're going to start there and have a little discussion, um, look at the the techniques and the positioning, um, to break that grip and then, uh, we'll start looking at interest entrances into the position, um, later on.
Alright? So, we're going to say that I was, I was able to get my partner into the Kimura position.
Alright, where I'm looking to finish this. Okay?
Um, so in the transition into uh, the finishing position, I'm going to deal with this arm.
Alright, so let's not think about this arm right now. Let's just focus on the arm that we're attacking. Alright? Normally, the grip that they're going to look to make to save themselves is going to be a belt grip.
Alright? Um, and, you know, from there, it's all about me trying to break that grip and get his arm behind his back, okay? So, couple of things.
Just going to have his arm in between my legs for now. And here we are.
Okay? As far as my legs go, alright, I want to keep my toes on the mat. Alright? I don't want to sit flat-footed, laces down.
Um, if you ever run into a situation where you're unable to stop the person from turning over onto their knees, I guarantee it was a situation where your your laces were down, okay? And you didn't have your toes in the mat, alright? So I want to get my feet engaged in the mat, so whenever I'm on top with my Kimura grip, I can lean and use my weight much better on top of his arm.
Alright? Um, so my chest is always connected to the back of his tricep and his elbow, and I have my toes on the mat helping me drive my weight down so I can secure this position, okay? If I sit on my laces, alright?
And I disconnect my chest from his arm, here if he turns really hard over onto his knees, I might fall and be forced to do some sort of weak, uh, armbar attack, and that's usually how you end up losing everything, alright?
So, my number one concern is to maintain this position, and, uh, be heavy, alright? And be connected to his arm, alright? It's going to be my whole body working against this arm, okay? So now that you've seen the toes, let's turn this way and look head on here.
Okay? So, my toes are on the mat. I'm staying connected.
Alright? The next thing I'm going to do while I'm here, I'm going to dig this hand inside his hand.
Okay? So, I'm going to work to get as much of my fingers inside his palm as possible.
Alright? Go ahead and let go and just raise up here. So, you see how I managed to get two or three fingers inside his palm?
Alright? This is very important. When I finish the Kimura, I don't want to be only on his wrist, okay? When I'm working to break this grip, I want to get into his hand as much as possible.
Alright? The grip is his hand. It's his hand and his fingers.
So holding his wrist doesn't allow me any extra leverage, um, into the point of his, his grip, alright? His power, okay?
So, as I start to work on the Kimura and and get, you know, the the position to get to the finish, I'm going to be digging my fingers into his hand immediately, alright? And this is something we'll look at as we, uh, progress and, uh, look at the entrances into this position, but even if I got here without already having a bit of his hand, I'm going to dig my hand in there and and make sure I get some of my fingers in there, okay? From here, I'm not using my thumbs.
And I'm rolling my wrist, okay? For the monkey grip, alright? And what you'll see is, as I roll my wrist, um, with the, the hand grip, it's already kind of putting a little bit of a wrist lock on him, okay? So, I'm not here. As I roll, it kind of folds his wrist and makes it a little bit of a wrist lock position, already weakening his grip, alright? And that's what I want.
Okay? Now from here, we're going to keep our our body connected. We're going to use our whole body against his arm and his hand, okay?
So, what that means is, when I go to break this grip, I can't disconnect and then only try to use my arms to pop his hand off, alright? I want to keep my elbows into my ribs.
Really glue myself to the back of his arm, and as I come up to finish, I'm only going to turn out to the side, okay? I'm not going to go straight up. I'm going to almost twist and turn like I'm looking over my shoulder, alright? So, go ahead and hold on a little bit for me, Ty.
Okay? Perfect. So, to help me generate a little bit of momentum and, uh, and extra power, with my toes on the mat, okay?
I'm going to lift my knees slightly, alright? You see how my my knees come off the mat just a little bit, so I can get almost get a little bit of a, uh, kind of a bounce into this, okay? A rocking motion to help me have a little more power to turn and pull this away, okay?
So, you see this is the motion I'm going with here. And I like to kind of prep myself mentally, alright? I'm about to explode, but I'm going to use my whole body against this one grip, alright? But I'm going to breathe and sort of get my mind in the place I want it to be, to where I'm ready to get this arm and take it home, okay?
So, I'm here. My elbows are in, nice and tight, alright? I rock one, maybe breathe, two, and then on three, I'm going to go.
Here. You see how tight I kept his arm to my body? I only went to the side, used my hip against the back of his shoulder. Everything is tight, okay?
With the grip in the hand and my wrist rolled, here if he wants to try to straighten his arm, it doesn't go, doesn't go.
And now I have the finish, okay?
And the more flexible he is, as I go, I'll turn my hip and lift this knee up.
To continue taking it down all the way behind his head if he's that flexible, alright?
So again, he has the belt grip. I get in his hand. My elbows are in tight.
I'm on my toes. Everything is connected, okay? Let yourself breathe for a second.
He's not going anywhere. I keep my weight down, alright? I'm not going to let him turn one way or another, okay? He's stuck.
And I'm just going to, you know, give myself a couple seconds. And when I'm ready, boom, directly out to the side, okay?
And because I'm at the end, he's not going to be able to straighten his arm in this process. If I'm on the wrist, maybe he can straighten.
And especially if I'm using my thumbs, he's definitely going to be able to straighten, alright? So, this is the way we want to grip, and the further at the end of the limb that we can grip, the stronger control we have.
And there's going to be our finish, okay? So as you come out, keep it up.
Don't go down diagonal and let him make a new grip. Up, once you get past his body, then I'll start to turn and take it all the way down towards his head, alright? So, the finishing mechanics, okay? Just to help you understand, um, the ending and how we're going to generate the power through our whole body to break the grip, alright? The Kimura was one of my strongest finishes since I was like 15 years old. And when I was a 15-year-old kid, teenager, I was already competing in the adult division, alright? So, I'm going against, uh, grown men, much stronger than me, but I was able to finish them because of some of these key details that I've continued to refine over all these years, alright? And this is it.
```